Add: Talon.One (Action) Destination (#2633)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/connections/destinations/catalog/actions-talon-one/index.md

---
title: Talon.One (Action) Destination
hide-boilerplate: true
hide-dossier: false
hidden: true
---

<!-- In the section above, edit the `title` field. For example, Slack (Actions) Destination -->

{% include content/plan-grid.md name="actions" %}

> Create flexible and targeted promotional and loyalty campaigns with [Talon.One](https://www.talon.one/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create flexible and targeted promotional and loyalty campaigns with [Talon.One](https://www.talon.one/){:target="_blank"}.
```

> Campaigns can be created and managed by non-technical users such as marketers. There is no need to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Campaigns can be created and managed by non-technical users like marketers. There is no need to
```

> Campaigns can be created and managed by non-technical users such as marketeers. There is no need to

Reviewer 2: typo?
```suggestion
Campaigns can be created and managed by non-technical users such as marketers. There is no need to
```

get your development team involved. Features include coupons, discounts, loyalty

> programs, referral tracking, geo-fencing, and bundling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
programs, referral tracking, geofencing, and bundling.
```

> This destination is maintained by Talon.One. For any issues with the destination, [contact the Talon.One Support team](mailto:support@talon.one) or refer to [Talon.One's documentation](https://docs.talon.one/docs/dev/technology-partners/segment).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This destination is maintained by Talon.One. For any issues with the destination, [contact the Talon.One Support team](mailto:support@talon.one) or refer to [Talon.One's documentation](https://docs.talon.one/docs/dev/technology-partners/segment){:target="_blank"}.
```

<!-- In the section below, add your destination name where indicated. If you have a classic version of the destination, ensure that its documentation is linked as well. If you don't have a classic version of the destination, remove the second and third sentences. -->

> success ""

> > **Good to know**: This page is about the [Actions-framework](/docs/connections/destinations/actions/) Talon.One Segment destination. T here's also a page about the [non-Actions Talon.One destination](/docs/connections/destinations/catalog/talonone/). Both of these destinations receive data from Segment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Good to know**: This page is about the [Actions-framework](/docs/connections/destinations/actions/) Talon.One Segment destination. There's also a page about the [non-Actions Talon.One destination](/docs/connections/destinations/catalog/talonone/). Both of these destinations receive data from Segment.
```

## Benefits of Talon.One (Actions) vs Talon.One Classic

Talon.One (Actions) allows you to share more data than the classic destination.

> The classic version sharing customer profile data. The Action version supports sharing the following data:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The classic version only shares customer profile data. The Action version supports sharing the following data:
```

- Customer profile data
- Audience data
- Tracking events

> 

Reviewer 3: Can we also add the list of Available actions and their short description [like here for example ](https://segment.com/docs/connections/destinations/catalog/braze-cloud-mode-actions/#available-actions-1)

Here is our list:

- createAudience
- updateAudience
- deleteAudience
- trackEvent
- updateCustomerProfile
- updateCustomerProfilesAttributes
- updateCustomerProfilesAudiences

> 

Reviewer 3: Can we also add the list of Available actions and their short description [like here for example](https://segment.com/docs/connections/destinations/catalog/braze-cloud-mode-actions/#available-actions-1)

Here is our list:

- createAudience
- updateAudience
- deleteAudience
- trackEvent
- updateCustomerProfile
- updateCustomerProfilesAttributes
- updateCustomerProfilesAudiences

Reviewer 4: Hi @bolatkhanpm, once the Talon.One integration is in Public Beta, Actions and their fields and descriptions will populate from our API. No need to manually add them here.

<!-- The section below explains how to enable and configure the destination. Include any configuration steps not captured below. For example, obtaining an API key from your platform and any configuration steps required to connect to the destination. -->

## Getting started

### Creating an API key in Talon.One

> Segment needs a Talon.One-generated API key to be able to send data to your Talon.One Application. Generate an API key specific to Segment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Segment needs a Talon.One-generated API key to be able to send data to your Talon.One Application.  To generate an API key specific to Segment:
```

1. Open your Talon.One Application in the Campaign Manager and click **Settings > Developer settings**.
1. Click **Create API Key**.
1. For **Do you want to use this API Key with a 3rd party service**, select **Yes**.
1. Select **Segment** from the dropdown.
1. Select an expiry date and click **Create API Key**.
1. Copy it for later use.

### Adding a Talon.One destination

To start sending data to Talon.One from Segment, create a Talon.One
[destination](/docs/connections/destinations/) in Segment.

1. In Segment, click **Destinations** > **Add Destination**. The **Destination catalog** opens.

> 1. Search for **Talon.one** and confirm the destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Search for **Talon.one** and configure the destination.
```

1. Enter the details:
   - In **Name**, type a name, for example `Talon.One destination`.
   - In **API key**, paste the API key generated in the previous section.
   - In **Deployment**, type the URI of your Talon.One deployment, for example
     `https://mycompany.europe-west1.talon.one/`.
1. (Optional) Set up your filters.
1. Configure the mapping:

>    1. Click **New Mapping** and select the type of action to perform in Talon.One.

Author: I would argue against doing this. If we add a new action, we need to update the docs. The UI should lead for what each action is (and already does). We want to minimize docs maintenance as much as possible but it is a fair idea 🙂

      For example _When a new audience is created in Segment, also create it in Talon.One._
   1. Configure the trigger and action fields.
1. Click **Event Tester** and test if you received the data in Talon.One.

> Once you retrieve data, you can start creating rules that rely on that data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you receive data, you can start creating rules that rely on that data.
```

> warning ""

> > **Important**: You might need to create custom attributes in Talon.One to be able to map the data from Segment in Talon.One. See the [Talon.One docs](https://docs.talon.one/docs/product/account/dev-tools/managing-attributes#creating-custom-attributes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Important**: You might need to create custom attributes in Talon.One to be able to map the data from Segment in Talon.One. See the [Talon.One docs](https://docs.talon.one/docs/product/account/dev-tools/managing-attributes#creating-custom-attributes){:target="_blank"}.
```

> ### Testing the integration

Reviewer 3: Do you think that information is necessary? Because in Segment there is Event Tester and Event Builder feature which is more user friendly than testing with JSON data :)

Author: It's not about the feature to build the payload, it's more about the content of the payload 😉  
From my own test with the new destination, there was nothing obvious helping us create the `properties` object that will work with TalonOne, meaning having and `eventType`, `customerProfileId` and `attributes` object.

You can use the following payloads to test and fine-tune your requests.

```json
{
  "messageId": "segment-test-message-t1kx8e",
  "timestamp": "2022-03-22T12:41:20.918Z",
  "type": "track", // or any other type in Segment
  "userId": "test-user-z65zqk",
  "event": "track-event", // or any other event in Segment
  "email": "test@example.org",
  "projectId": "qR6APLKpCBB3ue8pHkBLpo",
  "properties": {
    "eventType": "mySegmentEvent",
    "type": "boolean",
    "customerProfileId": "a_customer_id",
    "attributes": {
      "language": "English" // depends your custom attributes in Talon.One
    }
  }
}
```

### Next steps

> Once you receive data from Segment inside Talon.One, start creating your rules in the Campaign Manager. See the [Talon.One documentation](https://docs.talon.one/docs/product/rules/overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you receive data from Segment inside Talon.One, start creating your rules in the Campaign Manager. See the [Talon.One documentation](https://docs.talon.one/docs/product/rules/overview){:target="_blank"}.
```
